Why do we need databases in all this
complicated database query language?
Why can't businesses keep things simple
and just store things in spreadsheets?
It seems like that would make
things a lot easier on everyone.
Well, let's examine that premise
that keeping company data in
spreadsheets would make
things easier on everyone.
Imagine you are working with Daniel Egger
as he stars up Egger's Roast Coffee,
the business he described in Course 1 of
the specialization Business Metrics for
Data Driven Companies.
Your first week of business, Daniel
personally handled orders from some great
companies that he dutifully kept
track of in this spreadsheet.
You entered all the information that
it seemed important to track and
things look good.
Now, fast forward a couple of years.
Edger's Roast Coffee's done
extraordinarily well, and
Daniel has become coffee
king of North Carolina.
There are huge numbers of orders coming
in every day, and now many people
are entering those orders into the
spreadsheet you made the first week, and
many people are keeping track of and
modifying the orders as
customers call to ask questions.
Actually I just said that very calmly, but
the truth is what I just said puts
misleadingly positive outlook on what's
probably happening in the ordering
department of Egger's Roast Coffee.
What's really happening is that
multiple people are trying to
enter those orders into a spreadsheet,
but that doesn't always happen because
now Egger's Roast Coffee
has over 1 million orders.
So the one spreadsheet you made when the
company started has been broken into six
separate spreadsheets so
that Excel doesn't crash every
time you try to enter an order.
Breaking the spreadsheet into six has
helped prevent Excel from crashing.
But now every time a customer calls
to ask a question about an order or
an invoice, It takes a couple of
minutes before the employee can
find the correct spreadsheet
that has the order.
Especially because each
spreadsheet is still very large so
it takes Excel a while to open each one.
The more annoying part is that multiple
people are trying to use the spreadsheet
at the same time.
So when a customer calls with question,
you have to wait until somebody
else finishes with the spreadsheet
before you can open it yourself.
As a consequence,
you all start coming up with elaborate
ploys to keep the spreadsheet open on your
computers so that you are the one that
has it loaded when a customer calls.
Fortunately, everybody
at Egger's Roast Coffee
realizes that it's bad business
practice to have employees get
kicked off the ordering
spreadsheets when they need them.
So the company agrees to move their
spreadsheets to an online service
that let's multiple people edit
the spreadsheet at the same time.
Cool, but now new problems are arising.
First of all,
the spreadsheets are still pretty big.
So they still take a while to open and
search.
Second, sometimes multiple people end up
interacting with a spreadsheet at the same
time, and they end up writing
over each other's entries.
Third, there's starting to be a lot
of inconsistencies in the data
which are hard to catch if you don't
have multiple spreadsheets open at once.
And only a few people have
computers that are powerful enough
to open multiple spreadsheets
of that size at once anyway.
As some examples of these inconsistencies,
here are some excerpts from
the master spreadsheets.
Is the customer Archway's contact Trudy,
or Mark?
And if it's Trudy, which email address
is in the spreadsheet is her true email?
Are Trudy's email addresses different
because someone entered the second
one by mistake, or because Trudy
has actually changed her email?
One of the reasons you might worry that
Trudy's second email was a mistake,
is because lots of mistakes
have been occurring recently.
Every time a returning customer makes an
order, an Egger's Coffee employee has to
type in all that information about
the returning customer again,
even though it's already been entered
in the spreadsheet multiple times.
Since the employees are doing their
best to keep the customer happy,
they end up entering
the information really quickly, and
as a side effect,
are more likely to make a mistake.
Other issues that have gotten annoying
are that when a mistake is made in
one place in the spreadsheet it often
means that an employee has to change
multiple fields in the spreadsheet
to correct the mistake.
So when it turned out that Lina wasn't
actually the Egger's roast coffee employee
to make this sale, somebody had to update
this column that had Lina's name but that
person also had to update these columns
with Lina's contact information and
sale number.
It would have saved a lot of
time if that were automatic.
There were formulas in these columns at
one point that made updating automatic,
but now there are so
many different spreadsheets and
mistakes in the spreadsheets, that the
formulas often output the wrong thing, so
nobody trusts them.
And the problems don't stop there.
Sometimes, it would be useful to
keep some information in a row, but
delete other information.
Here for example,
Lulu's decided to cancel their order.
So you delete the order information in
an effort to make sure the formulas that
tally up the sum of
your sales are correct.
But you would still like to keep Lulu's
contact information in the company's
records so that you can try to woo them
back to placing an order in the future.
The problem is that you have a row with
a lot of empty data, an employee looking
over the spreadsheet trying to
reconcile records for an audit, might
think the row is a big mistake and either
get worried or erase it all together.
Speaking of audits, the company ended up
switching invoice systems along the way,
and some orders are being made
on the old invoice system
while others are being
made with the new system.
The employee who was responsible for
reconciling the companies records needs to
separate the sales made on two systems,
but it's difficult to do so because yet
another separate analysis spreadsheet
is used for the analysis.
And it's hard to keep that analysis
spreadsheet up to date when there are new
orders being added all the time.
Further, Egger's Roast Coffee would like
to start collecting more information about
its customers to improve
marketing efforts.
However, the number of columns that
need to be added to each spreadsheet to
accomplish these marketing analysis
would more than triple the size of
the spreadsheets.
That would make the spreadsheets
even slower than they are now.
So, as you can see, starting by entering
Egger's Roast Coffee records into
a spreadsheet is easy and
made a lot of sense.
But as the company grew,
spreadsheets became increasingly
inefficient and inaccurate.
At this point keeping
the company's data and
spreadsheets would really
hinder the company.
If Egger's Roast Coffee ever gets to the
point in the future where they're making
millions of sales per year,
the spreadsheet system will become
a huge bottleneck in the company's
ability to maintain customer service,
keep track of its finances,
and make business decisions.
For Egger's Roast Coffee to stay
competitive, they need a data storage
solution that makes their information
easily retrievable, easy to update,
and accessible and modifiable by
multiple people at the same time.
In addition, especially because so
many people will be accessing the data,
there needs to be a way to make sure the
data are consistent across all the stored
records and that data aren't being
deleted or lost inadvertently.
The storage method also needs
to be space efficient, so
the data aren't being repeated and
taking up extra space.
Of course,
the storage needs to be fast as well.
Data need to be entered,
search, and retrieved quickly.
Finally, another thing we
didn't talk about yet,
is that the company's data
also needs to be very secure.
When you're storing financial information,
adding a password to a spreadsheet is not
going to be enough to keep that
information safe and protected.
That long list of problems that
arise when a lot of people
are using a lot of data are the exact
problems databases are meant to solve.
Watch the next video to find out how
relational databases in particular,
manage to do that.